feat: add blog post about gatsby ssr caching (#402)
satellytes/satellytes.com: blog-posts/gatsby-ssr-caching.md

featuredImage: images/gatsby-ssr-caching.jpg
author: "Fabian Dietenberger"
authorSummary: "Senior Developer at Satellytes"
teaserText: Learn how to cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud
seoMetaText: Learn how to cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud to boost page speed and scalability. Your users won't see a difference to SSG or DSG pages anymore.
leadboxText: Want to learn more about creating blazing fast pages? Then join us to learn more!
attribution:
    creator: Shiro Hatori
    source: https://unsplash.com/photos/WR-ifjFy4CI
---

Ever since it's introduction [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.com) has established itself as the standard solution for 
React-based [Jamstack](https://jamstack.org/what-is-jamstack/) architectures. But where this approach has proven to 
be quite powerful for smaller sites, the restriction to pre-build all pages using Static Site Generation has proven 
to be a bottleneck [for larger websites](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/performance/improving-build-performance/)
or pages with real-time requirements.

Luckily the recent v4 update has added a couple of interesting new tools to the developer toolbox. One of them is 

> [Server-side Rendering](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/). With 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Server-Side Rendering (SSR)](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/). With 
```

> SSR, pages are created at the moment the user visits the page and not before. This allows for greater scaling and also 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSR, pages are rendered on the server at the moment the user visits the page. This allows for greater scaling, as not all content pages need to be pre-rendered. Plus: this allows for additional features, like live-content or user-specific data.
```

> some additional features like per-user generated pages, but this is another blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Why is caching important?

When serving a page via SSR, efficient caching becomes crucial as the user won't see anything until the whole page 
is rendered on the server and delivered to the browser. If rendering also includes fetching some external data or 

> doing some compute heavy calculations, it can also become problematic for scaling and stability. That's where caching 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
doing some compute heavy calculations, this can take multiple seconds. Despite this being generally bad UX, it can also become problematic for scaling and stability. 
That's where caching 
```

> comes in place. You can cache on multiple levels, like only heavy computations. But the most impact on speed and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
comes in. Caching can be done on multiple levels. But the most impact on speed and 
```

I would do a bullet list with the levels, e.g.: 
* caching on edge (*)
* caching render results (as static pages)
* caching database requests
* caching resources
* ... you are more knowledgable about the right terms and alternatives to use

(*) probably with link to definition)

scalability has caching at the edge, which means caching the whole rendered page on a CDN, right in front of the user.

> If you host your Gatsby page with Gatsby Cloud, you have a CDN out of the box. The CDN is powered by Fastly, but that's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you host your Gatsby page with Gatsby Cloud, you have a CDN out of the box. The CDN is powered by Fastly 
```

> just an implementation detail. Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred ([DSG](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/rendering-options/deferred-static-generation/)) pages is done automatically, so no 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred ([DSG](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/rendering-options/deferred-static-generation/)) pages is done automatically, so no 
```

> just an implementation detail. Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred ([DSG](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/rendering-options/deferred-static-generation/)) pages is done automatically, so no 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just an implementation detail. Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred ([DSG](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/rendering-options/deferred-static-generation/)) pages is done automatically. So there is no
```

> need to configure anything here. But if you want to do SSR, you need to take care of the correct caching behavior by 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to configure anything. But with SSR, you will need to configure the correct caching behavior by 
```

yourself.

> This post was inspired by the excellent video from [Remix on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfLFHp7Sbkg) 

> > If you want to deep dive to CDN caching with SSG and SSR, you should have a look! 

Reviewer: Place below the "Cache-Control header" section

[directives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#directives) that can control caching. 
For our purposes the most important ones are:

- `max-age`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the browser. Use this to determine how 
  long the page should be cached  in the browser after the user fetched it. There won't be any network requests 
  during this time except the initial fetch.
- `s-maxage`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the CDN. For content that changes 
  fequently, you may want to set smaller value. If content isn't expected to change it is safe to set a longer 
  time-period. If not set, the CDN will default to `max-age`.
- `stale-while-revalidate` : Similar to `s-maxage` header, for the given time-period all user-requests are served 
  instantly. But on top, the page is also refreshed in the background. If the requested page has been updated, the 
  cached version will be replaced and all subsequent requests will serve the most up-to-date version of the content.
  If the content is not crucial, you can set this to a very high value.

> With those 3 directives, you can make your page as fast as with SSG or DSG. If the values are set correctly, only the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With those 3 directives, you can make your page as fast as with SSG or DSG pages. If the values are set correctly, only the 
```

very first user after a deployment will have to wait for the rendering. Everyone else will see a lightning fast page.

> > This header can also be used on any other SSR framework and CDN. It's not limited to Gatsby or Gatsby Cloud.

Reviewer: This can be moved to the end of the page, if you decide to move the other

## Implement caching with Gatsby

Now let's dive into the code and see how the `Cache-Control` header can be set with Gatsby.

```jsx
// pages/ssr.jsx
export default function Cache() {
  return (
      <h1>SSR: Server Side Rendering</h1>
  )
}

export async function getServerData() {
  return {
    headers: {
      'Cache-Control': 'public, max-age=10, s-maxage=60, stale-while-revalidate=240',
    }
  }
}
```

> Gatsby SSR pages export the `getServerData()` function, which you can use to do all kinds of stuff with it (like 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gatsby SSR pages export the `getServerData()` function which can be used fetch data on the server-side or do other tasks necessary for rendering the page. 
```

> fetching external data). Besides the props that can be injected into the page itself, this function returns a `headers` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is expected to return a `props` object, that will be injected into the page for rendering. But more importantly for our purposes, this function returns a `headers` 
```

object. This object is used to set the `Cache-Control` header.

In our case, we set the browser cache (`max-age`) to 10 seconds and the CDN cache (`s-max-age`) to 1 minute. After 1 minute, the CDN will 

> serve stale content (`stale-while-revalidate`) for a maximum of 4 additional minutes. If there is one request within these 4 minutes, a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
serve stale content. By adding the (`stale-while-revalidate`)-header we ensure , if there is any request within these 4 minutes, a 
```

---
path: "/blog/cache-gatsby-ssr-page-on-gatsby-cloud/"
date: "2022-02-11"
title: "Cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud"
featuredImage: images/gatsby-ssr-caching.jpg
author: "Fabian Dietenberger"
authorSummary: "Senior Developer at Satellytes"
teaserText: Learn how to cache Gatsby SSR page on Gatsby Cloud
seoMetaText: Lean how to cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud to boost page speed. Your users won't see a difference to SSG or DSG pages anymore.

> leadboxText: Want to learn more about creating blazing fast pages? Then join us to learn more!

Reviewer 2: thanks for the different versions 🙌 I think our "documentation" for blog posts should contain a clear view where the texts take effect.

attribution:
    creator: Shiro Hatori

>     source: https://unsplash.com/photos/WR-ifjFy4CI

Reviewer 2: Awesome picture ✨

---

> Since Gatsby 4 you can do [server side rendering](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/) 

Reviewer: Personally I think the start into the text is quite sudden. This could benefit from more introduction text.
This doesn't need to be sophisticated, I think even it shouldn't be. 
Just something nice and flowing to get you started, e.g., 
```
Ever since it's introduction [Gatsby](https://gatsbyjs.com] has established itself as the standard solution for React-based [Jamstack](https://jamstack.org/what-is-jamstack/) architectures. 
But where this approach has proven to be quite powerful for smaller sites, the restriction to pre-build all pages using [Static Site Generation](...) has proven to be a bottleneck [for larger websites](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/performance/improving-build-performance/) or pages with real-time requirements. 

Luckily the recent v4 update has added a couple of interesting new tools to the developer toolbox. Time to give one of them - [server side rendering](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/) - an in-depth-look and explore how to use it and what is can be done to optimize it for real live use-cases.

In contrast to the SSG-approach, where all content is pre-rendered at build-time, with [Server side rendering](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/) content is rendered server whenever the user requests a page.

of pages. This means, the page gets rendered at runtime, and not at buildtime.

When serving a page via SSR, efficient caching becomes crucial as the browser won’t show anything until the whole page 
is rendered on the server and delivered to the browser. Caching can be done on multiple levels in your architecture, in 
this article we will focus on caching at the edge with a CDN.

If you host your Gatsby page with Gatsby Cloud, you have a CDN out of the box. The CDN is powered by Fastly, but that’s 
just an implementation detail. Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred (DSG) pages is done automatically, so no need 
to configure anything here. But if you want to do SSR, you need to take care of the correct caching behavior by yourself.

> > This post was inspired by the excellent video from [Remix on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfLFHp7Sbkg) 

Reviewer 2: thanks I scrubbed through it and sounded good what I heard and saw. I like the split view 👍

> If you want to deep dive to CDN caching with SSG and SSR, you should have a look! 

> 

Reviewer 2: You nailed the perfect introduction here 💪 Thank you! I feel ready for the content and I'm excited to read about it.

## The Cache Control Header

Caching in Gatsby Cloud can be controlled via the HTTP caching header `Cache-Control`. This header has multiple 

> [directives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#directives), the most important are:

Reviewer 3: I'd (very) slightly prefer a different choice of wording - this sounds a bit too german to my ears. how about "..., most importantly:..."?

- `max-age`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the browser. Use this to determine how long the page should be cached  in the browser after the user fetched it. This cache is per user.

> - `s-maxage`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the CDN. If not set, the CDN will use `max-age`. Use this to determine how long a page can be cached globally. You may want to set the time lower for new and often changing content and higher for old or less frequently changed content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `s-maxage`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the CDN. If not set, the CDN will use `max-age`. Use this to determine how long a page can be cached globally. You may want to set the time lower for new and frequently changing content and higher for old or less frequently changing content.
```

> - `stale-while-revalidate` : The time in seconds for how long the page should be stored by the CDN and a new page should be requests in the background when a visitor hits it. Once the new page is requests, the stale page will be replaced by it. Use this to serve an old version of a page before the new page has been rendered. This is very powerful to keep your page fast while updating it in the background. If the content is not crucial, you can make this time very high.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `stale-while-revalidate` : The time in seconds for how long the page should be stored by the CDN and a new page should be requested in the background when a visitor hits it. Once the new page is requests, the stale page will be replaced by it. Use this to serve an old version of a page before the new page has been rendered. This is very powerful to keep your page fast while updating it in the background. If the content is not crucial, you can set this to a very high value.
```

> - `stale-while-revalidate` : The time in seconds for how long the page should be stored by the CDN and a new page should be requested in the background when a visitor hits it. Once the new page is requests, the stale page will be replaced by it. Use this to serve an old version of a page before the new page has been rendered. This is very powerful to keep your page fast while updating it in the background. If the content is not crucial, you can set this to a very high value.

Reviewer 2: this is required knowledge but I remember it from your other blog post which felt awkward in the first moment. But it's good.

> - `stale-while-revalidate` : The time in seconds for how long the page should be stored by the CDN and a new page should be requested in the background when a visitor hits it. Once the new page is requests, the stale page will be replaced by it. Use this to serve an old version of a page before the new page has been rendered. This is very powerful to keep your page fast while updating it in the background. If the content is not crucial, you can set this to a very high value.

Reviewer 2: that's cool!

> With those 3 directives, you can make your page as fast as with SSG or DSG. If the values are set correctly, only the 

Reviewer 2: I feel your transition that happened since remix gave you that knowledge 😁

very first user after a deployment will have to wait for the rendering. Everyone else will see a lightning fast page.

> This header can also be used on any other SSR framework and CDN. It's not limited to Gatsby or Gatsby Cloud.

## Enable Caching

Now let’s dive into the code and set the `Cache-Control` header:

```jsx
// pages/ssr.jsx
export default function Cache() {
  return (
      <h1>SSR: Server Side Rendering</h1>
  )
}

export async function getServerData() {
  return {
    headers: {
      'Cache-Control': 'public, max-age=10, s-maxage=60, stale-while-revalidate=240',
    }
  }
}
```

> Gatsby SSR pages export the `getServerData()`  function, which you can use to do all kinds of stuff with it (like 

Reviewer 2: cool that @hofmann-felix gave me the knowledge about that in a prior blog post 💪

fetching external data). Besides the props that can be injected into the page itself, this function returns a `headers` 
object. This object is used to set the `Cache-Control` header.

> In our case, we set the browser cache to 10 seconds and the CDN cache for 1 minute. After 1 minute, the CDN will 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our case, we set the browser cache to 10 seconds and the CDN cache to 1 minute. After 1 minute, the CDN will 
```

> In our case, we set the browser cache to 10 seconds and the CDN cache to 1 minute. After 1 minute, the CDN will 

Reviewer 2: help the distracted reader and put the cache keywords in parentheses. I had to look them up again.

> server stale content for a maximum of 4 additional minutes. If there is one request within these 4 minutes, a 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
serve stale content for a maximum of 4 additional minutes. If there is one request within these 4 minutes, a 
```

> new page will be rendered in background while the old page gets served. After the new page is rendered, it will replace 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
new page will be rendered in the background while the old page gets served. After the new page is rendered, it will replace 
```

> the old one and the caching time starts again. Let’s check the network tab to see if it works:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the old one on the server and the caching time starts again. Let’s check the network tab to see if it works:
```
maybe a little addition just to make this crystal clear 🤷‍♂️

![Chrome network tab with proper caching header. Everything works as expected.](images/gatsby-ssr-caching-network-tab.png)

> You can see: The very first pages took 5 seconds (there is an artificial delay of 5 seconds to make the server rendered 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can see: The very first page took 5 seconds to load (for this example, I added an artificial delay of 5 seconds to make the server rendered 
```

page more obvious). All other requests were served from CDN within 30ms. That’s super fast! Also, after the stale page 
was served, the page was re-rendered in the background and replaced. The request after the stale one was super fast 
again but served the new page.

## Conclusion

SSR with proper CDN caching is very powerful and can be used for a lot of scenarios, especially where you hit the 

> limits of SSG and DSG. The integration within Gatsby and Gatsby Cloud is seamless, you can introduce in on a per-page basis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
limits of SSG and DSG. The integration within Gatsby and Gatsby Cloud is seamless, you can introduce it on a per-page basis.
```

Some things to keep in mind:

- SSR functionality is quite new in Gatsby and may not be as mature as in other frameworks.

> - Same is for Gatsby Cloud, it’s quite new and my not be as mature as other hosting services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Same goes for Gatsby Cloud, it’s quite new and may not be as mature as other hosting services.
```

- SSR officially only works with Gatsby Cloud for now. You cannot host it somewhere else. There are third-party plugins though for [Fastify](https://github.com/gatsby-uc/plugins/tree/main/packages/gatsby-plugin-fastify) (self-hosting) or [Netlify](https://github.com/netlify/netlify-plugin-gatsby) (SAAS).

> - `gatsby-plugin-image` doesn’t work with SSR.

Reviewer 2: new facts in conclusion  are never good. I think those are good for an extra section?

Other than that: Have fun working with Gatsby SSR! Thanks for reading.

> Checkout the repository with a full example on [Github](https://github.com/feedm3/learning-gatsby-cloud-ssr-caching)

Reviewer 2: worth to pit it into the satellytes repo? no obligation whatever you like🙏

Author: I worked on this repo in my spare time, so this time I would like to keep it in my account :)

---
path: "/blog/cache-gatsby-ssr-pages-on-gatsby-cloud/"
date: "2022-02-15"
title: "Cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud"
featuredImage: images/gatsby-ssr-caching.jpg
author: "Fabian Dietenberger"
authorSummary: "Senior Developer at Satellytes"
teaserText: Learn how to cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud
seoMetaText: Learn how to cache Gatsby SSR pages on Gatsby Cloud to boost page speed. Your users won't see a difference to SSG or DSG pages anymore.
leadboxText: Want to learn more about creating blazing fast pages? Then join us to learn more!
attribution:
    creator: Shiro Hatori
    source: https://unsplash.com/photos/WR-ifjFy4CI
---

Since Gatsby 4 you can do [server side rendering](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/rendering-options/using-server-side-rendering/) 
of pages. This means, the page gets rendered at runtime, and not at buildtime.

> When serving a page via SSR, efficient caching becomes crucial as the browser won't show anything until the whole page 

Reviewer: Why? Explain why caching is important. 

E.g., rendering on the server is slow, especially with API requests, maybe even give some time metrics / graphics that show the difference.
Also in contrast to SSG: If SSG is so awesome, why do we even need SSR?

> is rendered on the server and delivered to the browser. Caching can be done on multiple levels in your architecture, in 

Reviewer: `Caching can be done on multiple` very interesting stuff, but nothing that is common knowledge, imo. 

I think that deserves it's own paragraph. Maybe mention (bullet-points suffice) the different caching layers and explain why caching @ edge is the way to go.

Author: Added it

this article we will focus on caching at the edge with a CDN.

If you host your Gatsby page with Gatsby Cloud, you have a CDN out of the box. The CDN is powered by Fastly, but that's 
just an implementation detail. Caching for your static (SSG) or deferred (DSG) pages is done automatically, so no need 
to configure anything here. But if you want to do SSR, you need to take care of the correct caching behavior by yourself.

> This post was inspired by the excellent video from [Remix on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfLFHp7Sbkg) 
> If you want to deep dive to CDN caching with SSG and SSR, you should have a look! 

## The Cache Control Header

Caching in Gatsby Cloud can be controlled via the HTTP caching header `Cache-Control`. This header has multiple 

> [directives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#directives), the most importantly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[directives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control#directives) that can control caching. For our purposes the most important ones are:
```

> - `max-age`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the browser. Use this to determine how long the page should be cached  in the browser after the user fetched it. This cache is per user.

Reviewer: Duplicate content "page should be cached  in the browser"

Reviewer: Also what does this mean? I.e., there will be no _network_ request for that time-period, but the content will be served by the brower-cache directly.

> - `s-maxage`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the CDN. If not set, the CDN will use `max-age`. Use this to determine how long a page can be cached globally. You may want to set the time lower for new and frequently changing content and higher for old or less frequently changing content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `s-maxage`: The time in seconds for how long the page should be cached by the CDN. Use this to determine how long a page can be cached globally. For content that changes fequently, you may want to set smaller value. If content isn't expected to change it is safe to set a longer time-period. If not set, the CDN will default to `max-age`. 
```

> - `stale-while-revalidate` : The time in seconds for how long the page should be stored by the CDN and a new page should be requested in the background when a visitor hits it. Once the new page is requests, the stale page will be replaced by it. Use this to serve an old version of a page before the new page has been rendered. This is very powerful to keep your page fast while updating it in the background. If the content is not crucial, you can set this to a very high value.

Reviewer: Ideas / suggetions for wording: The wildcard in world of CDN cache-headers! Similar to `s-maxage`-header, for the given time-period all user-requests are served instantly. But on top, the page is also refreshed in the background. If the requested page has been updated, the cached version will be replaced and all subsequent requests will serve the most up-to-date version of the content.

With those 3 directives, you can make your page as fast as with SSG or DSG. If the values are set correctly, only the 
very first user after a deployment will have to wait for the rendering. Everyone else will see a lightning fast page.

> This header can also be used on any other SSR framework and CDN. It's not limited to Gatsby or Gatsby Cloud.

## Enable Caching

Now let's dive into the code and set the `Cache-Control` header:

```jsx
// pages/ssr.jsx
export default function Cache() {
  return (
      <h1>SSR: Server Side Rendering</h1>
  )
}

export async function getServerData() {
  return {
    headers: {
      'Cache-Control': 'public, max-age=10, s-maxage=60, stale-while-revalidate=240',
    }
  }
}
```

> Gatsby SSR pages export the `getServerData()` function, which you can use to do all kinds of stuff with it (like 

Reviewer: Confusing, esp. with the sentence "This header can also be used on any other SSR framework and CDN. It's not limited to Gatsby or Gatsby Cloud." just before. 
Maybe add a sentence to "Now let's dive into the code and see how this can be done with Gatsby Cloud. The first step is to set the `Cache-Control`"...

Author: The sentence before is a callout, so I hope it doesn't confuse in the rendered post. Also changed the wording a bit.

fetching external data). Besides the props that can be injected into the page itself, this function returns a `headers` 
object. This object is used to set the `Cache-Control` header.

In our case, we set the browser cache (`max-age`) to 10 seconds and the CDN cache (`s-max-age`) to 1 minute. After 1 minute, the CDN will 
serve stale content (`stale-while-revalidate`) for a maximum of 4 additional minutes. If there is one request within these 4 minutes, a 
new page will be rendered in the background while the old page gets served. After the new page is rendered, it will replace 
the old one on the CDN and the caching time starts again. Let's check the network tab to see if it works:

![Chrome network tab shows that with proper caching headers only the very first request is slow](images/gatsby-ssr-caching-network-tab.png)

> You can see: The very first page took 5 seconds to load (for this example, I added an artificial delay of 5 seconds to make the server rendered 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see: The very first page took 5 seconds to load 
```

> page more obvious). All other requests were served from CDN within 30ms. That's super fast! Also, after the stale page 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All other requests were served from CDN within 30ms. That's super fast! Also, after the stale page 
```

was served, the page was re-rendered in the background and replaced. The request after the stale one was super fast 

> again but served the new page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
again and served the updated content.
```

> ## Gatsby SSR caveats

Reviewer: Not 100% sure, but is this article about Gatsby SSR or caching?

Author: I changed the wording a bit. It's things to keep in mind if you want to put SSR with caching in production and it felt important to me to mention it. I agree that it doesn't fit perfectly into the article.

Some things to keep in mind when you do SSR with Gatsby:

- SSR functionality is quite new in Gatsby and may not be as mature as in other frameworks.
- Same goes for Gatsby Cloud, it's quite new and may not be as mature as other hosting services.
- SSR officially only works with Gatsby Cloud for now. You cannot host it somewhere else. There are third-party plugins though for [Fastify](https://github.com/gatsby-uc/plugins/tree/main/packages/gatsby-plugin-fastify) (self-hosting) or [Netlify](https://github.com/netlify/netlify-plugin-gatsby) (SAAS).
- `gatsby-plugin-image` doesn't work with SSR.

## Conclusion

SSR with proper CDN caching is very powerful and can be used for a lot of scenarios, especially where you hit the 

> limits of SSG and DSG. The integration within Gatsby and Gatsby Cloud is seamless, as you can introduce it on a per-page basis.

Reviewer: What is DSG? First mentioned here...

Author: I mentioned it in the introduction. Will add a link to the gatsby docs there.

> If you don't rely on `gatsby-plugin-image` too much, you should definitely give it a try.

Reviewer: Isn't the conclusion "give it a try, but not ready for production"?

Author: Kinda, I change the text in the headline above a bit to make it more clear
